*misdreavus-mru.txt* A most-recently-used buffer list

INTRODUCTION					*misdreavus-mru*

This plugin provides a way to track the buffers you use in each window, in the
order that they were accessed last. This information can then be displayed in
the 'tabline', in an extra window, or via the |:Mru| command.

==================================================================
OPTIONS						*misdreavus-mru-options*


g:misdreavus_mru_no_auto_enable		*g:misdreavus_mru_no_auto_enable*

If this variable is defined and holds any value prior to this plugin being
loaded, the MRU collection will be disabled. It can be manually enabled after
the plugin is loaded by using the |:EnableMru| command.


g:misdreavus_mru_rotate_count		*g:misdreavus_mru_rotate_count*

This setting affects which buffer is loaded using the |<Plug>RotateMru|
mapping. By default, this value is 3 (i.e. |<Plug>RotateMru| will load the
third buffer in the list, or the one used before the |alternate-file|).
Setting this to 2 makes <Plug>RotateMru act the same as |CTRL-^|. (Unless the
|:keepalt| command was used to load a buffer without changing the alternate
file - then |CTRL-^| and |<Plug>RotateMru| will load different buffers in that
situation.)


==================================================================
COMMANDS					*misdreavus-mru-commands*


:[count]Mru							*:Mru*
:Mru [count]
		Show the buffers in the current window's MRU list. Example:

			%4:	version.c ~
			#5:	/test/text ~
			 1:	asdf ~
			 2:	README.md ~

		The current buffer is indicated by a `%`. The |alternate-file|
		is indicated by a `#`.

		Passing a [count] to this command will only print that many
		items. Without a count (or with a count of zero), all the
		entries will be printed.


:EnableMru							*:EnableMru*
		Enables the MRU tracking. Calling this after the plugin has
		already been enabled has no effect.


:DisableMru							*:DisableMru*
		Disables the MRU tracking and clears out any existing MRU
		lists.


==================================================================
MAPPINGS					*misdreavus-mru-mappings*


<Plug>RotateMru					*<Plug>RotateMru*

Using this mapping will load a buffer from the MRU list, as configured by
|g:misdreavus_mru_rotate_count|. The plugin author recommends mapping CTRL-7,
to mirror |CTRL-^|. This may show up as a different key to Vim:
>
	nmap <C-_> <Plug>RotateMru
<
(Use |CTRL-K| to verify what a special key looks like to Vim.)

The function |RotateMru()| is also available to perform the same behavior.


==================================================================
FUNCTIONS					*misdreavus-mru-functions*


RotateMru()					*RotateMru()*

This function performs the same action as |<Plug>RotateMru|.


==================================================================
PLUGIN INTEGRATIONS				*misdreavus-mru-integrations*


misdreavus-session				*misdreavus-mru-session*

If |misdreavus-session| is used to save a session, misdreavus-mru will
serialize the MRU lists into a String global *g:MisdreavusSessionMru* so that
they can be saved in the session (if `'globals'` is added to
'sessionoptions'). When that session file is loaded, the MRU lists will be
loaded back up, so that any buffers that were saved in the session re-appear
in the MRU lists in the same order they were in when the session was saved.


==================================================================
API						*misdreavus-mru-api*


g:misdreavus_mru				*g:misdreavus_mru*

This variable contains a |Dict|, mapping a |window-ID| to a list of buffer
numbers. This is the primary data structure for misdreavus-mru - if it's
removed using |:unlet|, the MRU tracking is disabled globally.

The order of the buffer numbers in each entry determines the ordering shown in
|:Mru| - the first number is the current buffer in that window, the second is
the previous one, etc.


SaveMruSession({mru-dict})			*SaveMruSession()*

This processes the given MRU dictionary into a |String|, which is returned.
The {mru-dict} is expected to be in the same format as |g:misdreavus_mru| -
i.e. a dict mapping |window-ID|s to lists of buffer numbers.

The resulting string is a serialized Dict mapping buffer names to a list of
lists. If a buffer is displayed in multiple windows, there will be multiple
MRU lists associated with it, and thus multiple lists in the resulting map.
The lists are also saved as buffer names instead of buffer numbers, so that
the MRU lists can be properly reconstructed later on when the session is
loaded.

To reconstruct the MRU structure, pass the resulting string to
|LoadMruSession()|.


LoadMruSession({session-mru})			*LoadMruSession()*

This function loads a {session-mru} saved by |SaveMruSession()| and rebuilds
the MRU dictionary structure from it, using the currently opened buffers and
windows. The resulting dict is returned. To use the MRU lists with the rest of
the misdreavus-mru functionality, assign it to |g:misdreavus_mru|.


 vim:tw=78:ts=8:sts=0:sw=8:noet:ft=help:norl:
